So I do like one of my favorite
things about this workshop so
far is that people are asking like some of
the questions like before we get to it.
And so we talked a little
bit about react memo, and
I want to, one of the questions
that we saw that we talked about.
But we didn't like look at it in action,
was like, okay,
we're moving like expensive component and
around and again on purpose, right?
Because again, step one is can you just
work with your component hierarchy in
a way that does not involve extra taxes
yeah one extra check is no big deal as
they add up right like
performance problems but
sometimes that is the strategy it's like.
As due diligence,
you should see can you do it?
Can you can you solve your performance
issue without, like, you know, it's not I
wouldn't say it's like using like a like
exclamation point important on a CSS tag.
It's not that but like,
the metaphor has its has its virtues.
But it is a thing that works and
like we'll talk about in a second but
let's see it first and then we'll
talk about it so this I grabbed.
In a previous one of the earlier bad
ones right where expressive component
is a sibling and is causing all
the problems that it likes to cause
that you're still living over in
game two but it's not being used.
The joys of switching get branches
repeatedly In a way that it was
never meant to handle so let's go
take a look at that I think it is yep
it's up in 3001 We are slow, and
there are like we said before,
we are just doing this thing,
parent re rendered.
Every child is asked to re render.
They're most good ways of doing anything.
There was a way to be like, hey, listen,
I know what's going on here,
stand back I got this right?
And so react memo is basically like
we said before when someone asks
the question of like,
it gives the ability to hug a component,
right with some logic to like look
at the props before they make it to
that expensive component like
we were moving stuff around.
So that new changes didn't
make it to a component.
This is a way to be,
let me see that first.
And there are different ways to do it for
class based components versus
function components and
hooks should component update method on a,
you can wrap a class component
in reactive memo too.
So it's Should component update and
there's another one
functional components are unique to
both of them react that memo and
wrapping the component works on both but
there's other ways to do it but
they all predate react I would say at this
point this is the preferred way to do
it if I was dispensing advices on best
practices my version of the best practice.
And what it does is it
checks the props and
then does not rerender it if the props
are the same as last time, right?
And particularly for expensive component,
which does not take any props.
They are always going to be the same
because like empty is the same as empty
every time Right, does null equals null?
It's one of the final truths in JavaScript
where things don't always make sense.
And using it is very easy.
You put a space for
that all to complete niceness.
Memo, it's on the React Library and
you wrap it.
Memo does theoretically take a second
argument so if we hover over and
get the type information you can see right
there props are equal is a function that
takes the previous props and the next
props and returns a Boolean or undefined.
You can take a lucky guess what it does
right now just a shallow comparison,
which it looks at the first property
it doesn't if one of those properties
is an object, it'll just say like is this
object the same as the other object?
It's not gonna recursively because
deep equal is shockingly expensive.
And if you want to find a way
to make your performance
issues worse By trying to solve them.
I worked on a team where they
thought you had to do that to
keep immutability in react and
use a db equal on every single set state.
That was the first time I got to use
a lot of these tools, just repeatedly.
And so yeah, it wraps it and
gives you your own ability to check
to see Have I ever used that before?
Yes.
Was it four to five years ago?
Of course.
Do I remember what the issue was?
Absolutely not,right?
I think it was like I really
only cared about like one prop?
or something like that,right?
And the rest were irrelevant.
And possibly could change but like only
one thing mattered I don't really remember
it was not my favorite day,right?
It was one of these things I guess
I'm doing this today kind of things.
So you can pass the second one in recent
memory I have not had a particularly good
excuse to do it.
So now we're exporting as default so
we can still call it expensive component
everywhere but it's our hugged
The expensive component, right?
So it's not it's not the same
expensive component as we had before.
And unless it gets new and different
props, which, if this is TypeScript,
it definitely couldn't because
the compiler would yell at me.
JavaScript.
I'm sure I can manage it.
But ideally, it shouldn't get it but
at least it's not going to get on
every render, and things will stop so
it can it can sit where it was,
and we should be good.
Just go back.
And see.
Look at that.
You just wrap it, and yeah,
there's a slight cost to that.
But like in a lot of cases where
any of these other techniques
are available to you,
it's a valid way to do it but
it's not it should not be
the fist thing you do.
Because again it's not
necessarily free and
as to get the golden rule was not doing
stuff is faster than doing stuff right and
there's always technical answers right.
I always think about as somebody who
leads the team to which is the second you
start like You start that then
everyone starts doing it.
The next thing you're taking
components don't even have subtrees and
just everyone, well, that's what
we do in this code base, right?
And things get out of control and
sometimes you need rules.
And so that's a thing.
And so that's in place.
So let's like okay for
all those renders in the other app right
that packing lists up and we get 3002.
Yay.
We had all the crazy we fixed it there.
We still have it.
Just for changing one will
rerender everything All the time.
So, ideally, what I should be able to do,
is just slather on
some react out memos and
all my problems should go away, right?
Lets do it.
Without big apps,
it's not going to be that bad.
>> Alright, so application,
the general structure of this app
application has that new item has
like a marker was red button.
The real two things are two lists,
one for patch and one for unpacked items.
Those then have a series of items.
Right?
Not a lot going on here.
So what we'll say is listen item
list if you get the same like,
array of things like don't rerender memo.
I gotta import it Mean not important
how many times I've done that and
then given item on the list like if
.Yeah especially like gives you imagine
like the list of probably change right
if one of them gets his name change
like that's gonna remap an array
Arrays get changed all the time.
And I'm gonna just say that one more time
cuz when we talk about some of these other
memorization things, like if you ever
memorize something where you're using
a map and
returning a new array right before that,
then guess two arrays with the same
things are not the same array.
And this is why like using the tools and
looking after you do something
like a lot of times like 95% of
time the thing that you think would
happen happened notice I said 95
just memo everything let's go for
it like this is I think in
a lot of cases like Guess what?
A younger not as handsome but
more naive version of me.
Like I've seen pictures of
myself a few years ago.
And like, would have done right which
is this I'm gonna do this everywhere.
All right, and would find out later,
there was one time that I was definitely
contributing factor in the problem, right,
cuz it's like yo,
I this is what I'm supposed to do.
It was before I had come across my
own now adage of then if that's true,
then they would have just done
it in the framework, right?
This isn't just a fun like a little chore
they let me do to make me feel like I was
important.
So I think I got it mostly everybody
to get an header I can see cuz it's not
a modified file.
It was we're just making
a point at this point.
So like, yeah memo.
Toss it everywhere.
Great.
And so now like things shouldn't change,
right?
I should be able to like I don't know
like, edit the name of one of these or
shouldn't affect this array.
Nothing, nothing is better.
Everything is still as bad as it ever was,
right?
In fact, I could literally
do something silly to make
the to make a ridiculous point
Let's do it in the actual thing
let's say nothing important
And we'll say, yo, after you load.
Wait, like, a second and
let's just flip it to true.&nbsp; Let's
just change literally anything, right?
Does that, so you don't go like,
well actually,
maybe cuz you changed the name of
one that generated Wait a second.
I'll act like I know
how you state works for
a second,I was gonna say well I've
never seen that implementation,this
is why,I put this this is like
one of the like problems that
I have now I like which is like sometimes
I will have a mistake and a PR.
And someone will be like, When I thought
you did that on purpose, I'm like,
No, I'm just an idiot.
Right?
Like, I just, I was just tired.
It was just the end of the day and
I thought it was responsible to push
up my code before I made dinner.
All right.
Cool.
So let's go ahead.
And you can see that in that second,
the entire app,
nothing to do with the items re
rendered everything right so
just me following that blind advice and
going for
it didn't I mean maybe something
didn't remember that before, but
like, generally speaking Yeah,
it looks like packing lists was fine.
Like the number of items.
That one was fine.
And I'm pretty sure that was
everything else we rendered.
I mean, I literally have tools I could say
go hit that one over, refresh and do it.
Cool everything re-rendered.
Why?
Why did everything well I can
find out why, that's good.
That was the first time
we went the second time.
A second later.
Look, the tool is telling
me props changed.
It said like Ram was
doing his job is like,
I will not let this component re
render unless the props change.
I told her story about how I wrote
a custom one I don't remember why.
I don't remember if I was doing something
really dark that I shouldn't have now I
have this like sudden
existential sense of dread.
I was like putting over all the functions,
right?
Which in class based components
might have been okay.
But closures are a thing and hooks and
like you would have
the wrong variable in there.
Don't do that.
I don't know.
That's what I did.
But like now I'm worried that like,
whatever thing I did.
Four or five years ago was potentially
terrible it's pretty hoax.
I couldn't have been that bad.
And might not have been that but
yeah, we can see update and
remove other reasons that
everything is changing.
And again.
Like here's the thing.
JavaScript exists.
Sometimes we forget that,
but it's still a thing.
And like, it's not even bad.
It's just like there are rules.
Right?
And if we look at this, like we have
the eternal problem and I kind of did
the thing where it's like you have to like
mention whatever the murder weapon was in
chapter one if it ends up biting you later
Which is like we have all these helpful
things of like Cool yeah make an item with
the right properties great here's the one
that like maps to the array of it
has the right ID and updates and
all this stuff they have to do with
immutable data structures that now we just
you know live with.
And yeah this one filters off
does have the right ID but
it didn't have the ability to set the
items because I don't have that until I'm
in this function right so what did I do
it could just wire them up life went on.
However like almost like what we saw on
the very first time right this despite
the fact that it does the same thing as
the last time this Ran is a new function
in memory right and in JavaScript like
the like when I say there are rules.
It's like one equals one totally
depending on how many equal signs you use
two are true can also equal one but
generally speaking if we stick to using
three equal signs one will equal one
a string or EagleEye same string like.
Primitives are passed by value.
Objects are passed by
the reference in memory, right?
So, two arrays with the same items
are different objects in memory thereby
they're not equal.
Same is true for
two functions that do the same thing.
They are different they
are different memory addresses and
thereby are not equal.
So when react a memo looks at this
function that is in our eyes.
See the same thing and the one I got
last time right it's like well these
are different because it's a computer.
This is why I'm not worried about
like robots taking over just yet
like [LAUGH] let's deal with this
things like this automatically.
And then I'll then I'll
worry I'm Famous last words.